# MIRO report for the SWoT ontology
We here report the documentation for the [SWoT ontology](https://github.com/fr4ncidir/SemanticWoT/blob/master/swot.owl) according to the guidelines available in [1].

## A. Basics
1. **Ontology name (MUST)**
Semantic Web of Things Ontology (SWoT), version 0.1

2. **Ontology owner (MUST)**
[Francesco Antoniazzi](https://github.com/fr4ncidir)

3. **Ontology license (MUST)**
[GNU General Public License v3.0](https://github.com/fr4ncidir/SemanticWoT/blob/master/LICENSE)

4. **Ontology URL (MUST)**
<https://github.com/fr4ncidir/SemanticWoT/blob/master/swot.owl>

5. **Ontology repository (MUST)**
<https://github.com/fr4ncidir/SemanticWoT>

6. **Methodological framework (MUST)**
The ontology is clearly divided into static and dynamic description. The former was developed taking
into account previously available works on the Web Thing description made by W3C. An additional
part was included, related to data formatting and parametrization. The dynamic part was also studied
to be coherent and effective. A proof of concept was given by writing the SPARQL Updates and
Queries/Subscriptions needed by the Cocktail framework.

## B. Motivation
1. **Need (MUST)**
The  aim  of  the  ontology  is  to  permit  the  development  of  Semantic  Web  of  Things  applications focusing  equally  on  discovery  and  accessibility  of  devices  .  In  fact,  as  regards  this  last  point,  the ontology allows reading properties of Web Things as well as subscribing to their events or invoking
their actions.

2. **Competition (MUST)**
Web of Things ontology [6]

3. **Target audience (MUST)**
Developers of Semantic Web of Things applications.

## C. Scope, requirements, development community
1. **Scope and coverage (MUST)**
The ontology defines all the concepts belonging to the Semantic Web of Things domain. The aim of
the ontology is to provide a mean for a semantic-enriched interaction with Web Things. This allows
developers to exploit semantics for more than just discovering devices. The ontology provides the
definitions needed to model the Thing Description as well as the interaction patterns provided by
every device.

2. **Development community (MUST)**
Advanced Research Center on Electronic Systems (ARCES) of the University of Bologna.

3. **Communication (MUST)** [Issues](https://github.com/fr4ncidir/SemanticWoT/issues) on Github.

## D. Knowledge acquisition
1. **Knowledge acquisition method (MUST)**
Analysis of the literature about Web of Things and experiments carried out at the ARCES department
of the University of Bologna in the context of the HABITAT Italian research project and at the Centre
for Digital Music (C4DM) of the Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) in the AudioCommons
European project.

2. **Source knowledge location (SHOULD)** None
3. **Content Selection (SHOULD)** 
The main entities to be represented ontology have been selected according to the literature about
Web of Things. In fact, the concepts of Web Thing, Property, Event and Action play a crucial role
in the ontology. Moreover, to make the ontology suitable to control devices, some classes have been
added to map the input and output data.
## E. Ontology content
1. **Knowledge representation language (MUST)**
OWL 2 generated by Protégé v5.5.0beta; however, the ontology is at this stage only descriptive, and
it uses a reduced subset of OWL 2 capabilities, being the Description Logic ALUH(D).

2. **Development environment (OPTIONAL)**
Protégé v5.5.0beta.

3. **Ontology metrics (SHOULD)**
Number of classes: 14; number of object properties: 20; number of data properties: 9; 0 individuals.
Application metrics: Web Thing triple count formula, _DvS_ contents ratio, Data format impact;

4. **Incorporation of other ontologies (MUST)**
The ontology is stand-alone. Examples are given on how [DUL](https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/vocabs/dul), PROV-O [5] and [SOSA](https://www.w3.org/TR/vocab-ssn) can be included.

5. **Entity naming convention (MUST)** 
Entities follows the CamelCase notation. Both datatype and object properties are named as verb senses with mixedCase notation.

6. **Identifier generation policy (MUST)**
The SWoT ontology does not Identifiers of the instances must be generated by the application

7. **Identity metadata policy (MUST)**
All entities have an rdfs:comment natural language explanation

8. **Upper ontology (MUST)** 
No upper ontology is used in this work, to keep SWoT ontology as close as possible to real
applications. A suggestion is given on how to include references to [DUL](https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/vocabs/dul) in our [paper]() being submitted.

9. **Ontology relationships (MUST)**
20 object properties; 9 datatype properties.

10. **Axiom pattern (MUST)**
The ontology is not yet to be used with reasoners, but rahter oriented at a clear and operactional
definition of the concepts in the Semantic Web of Things. 169 axioms included (of which 80 logical
axioms, 7 SubClassOf, 11 SubObjectPropertyOf, 4 SubDataPropertyOf)

11. **Deferencable URI (OPTIONAL)** 
Some of the entities of the ontology have been conceived to be reachable from the Web. For instance,
thing descriptions, data schemas and field schemas. This is a best practice to be followed, to expand
interoperability towards future uses.
## F. Managing change
1. **Sustainability plan (MUST)**
The SWoT Ontology will be adopted in wide research projects (as already done with Habitat and
AudioCommons). Feedbacks collected during these activities will guide the future development of
the ontology.

2. **Entity deprecation strategy (MUST)**
No class will be deleted from the ontology. Deprecated classes will be labelled as obsolete with a
proper annotation property.

3. **Versioning policy (MUST)**
The SWOT Ontology adopts sequence-based identifiers for its versions with a major number and a
minor number, separated by a dot. A novel release featuring only small changes will cause a switch
of the minor number, while relevant and/or structural changes affects also the major number.

## G. Quality assurance
1. **Testing (MUST)**
The tests for SWoT ontology are closely bound to the ones for the Cocktail framework. A first
successful test is the realization itself of all Cocktail’s SPARQL enquiries. Secondly, the unittests
available in the repository, allowing to check their consistency by direct usage.

2. **Evaluation (MUST)**
Some of the metrics reported in [68] have been used to evaluate the SWOT Ontology. In particular
the number of classes, properties and individuals have been measured. Moreover, the maximum and
minimum Web Thing triple count, the triple dimension of dynamic interactions and the data format
influence on triple dimension have been defined to deal with the dynamic aspect of the ontology.

3. **Examples of use (MUST)**
An example of the ontology is reported in [3]. Other examples are available on the GitHub
repository in [this](https://github.com/fr4ncidir/SemanticWoT/tree/master/SWTE_example) folder.

4. **Institutional endorsement (OPTIONAL)**
None

5. **Evidence of use (MUST)**
Evidences of use are provided by [3] and [4].

## References
[1] Matentzoglu, N., Malone, J., Mungall, C., & Stevens, R. (2018). MIRO: guidelines for minimum information for the reporting of an ontology. _Journal of biomedical semantics, 9_(1), 6.

[2] Fernández, M., Overbeeke, C., Sabou, M., & Motta, E. (2009, December). What makes a good ontology? A case-study in fine-grained knowledge reuse. In _Asian Semantic Web Conference_ (pp. 61-75). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg.

[3] Viola, F., Stolfi, A., Milo, A., Ceriani, M., Barthet, M., & Fazekas, G. (2018, October). Playsound. space: enhancing a live music performance tool with semantic recommendations. In _Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Semantic Applications for Audio and Music_ (pp. 46-53). ACM.

[4] Antoniazzi, F., Paolini, G., Roffia, L., Masotti, D., Costanzo, A., & Cinotti, T. S. (2017, November). A web of things approach for indoor position monitoring of elderly and impaired people. In _Open Innovations Association (FRUCT), 2017 21st Conference of_ (pp. 51-56). IEEE.

[5] Lebo, T., Sahoo, S., McGuinness, D., Belhajjame, K., Cheney, J., Corsar, D., ... & Zhao, J. (2013). Prov-o: The prov ontology. _W3C recommendation, 30_.

[6] Serena, F., Poveda-Villalón, M., & García-Castro, R. (2017, June). Semantic Discovery in the Web of Things. In _International Conference on Web Engineering_ (pp. 19-31). Springer, Cham.